Welcome back everyone to the solution for interview questions.
Three in the product design metrics category.
We're still dealing with this new search algorithm that produces less relevant results.
And now the question was What do you think caused the new algorithm to generate more advertising revenue.
Even though the results were less relevant.
So there's definitely two main things to cover here.
And the first one is that we already know more searches are being conducted and just on that alone regardless
of whether or not the algorithm is producing less relevant results the fact that we're doing more searches
in general since advertisements are served along with every news search.
There are just more opportunities in general for users to click on an advertisement.
So this in itself is not directly related to the fact that there are less relevant results.
It's just the fact that if more people are doing more searches that means more advertisements are being
served if more advertisements are being served.
You're probably going to produce more advertising revenue.
But now let's focus on the fact that the results were less relevant in this new algorithm.
So the Another possibility is that the search algorithm is different than the algorithm used display
advertisements so maybe Google has won an algorithm for what's actually return based off your search
results.
And another algorithm for what advertisements to serve you.
And in that case what could be happening is that the advertisements themselves may actually be more
relevant than the search results.
Also causing more advertising clicks and in return resulting in more advertising revenue.
So the two main things to consider here are the fact that since you're doing more searches there's just
going to be more opportunities to get advertising revenue because the ads are served along with every
search result.
And the second interesting possibility is that the advertising algorithm and the ads themselves end
up being more relevant than the search results causing more people to click on them thus resulting in
higher advertising revenues.
Again this is not the only possible possible correct answer but it's just something to consider.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.